Getting started secrets docs (#3596)
weaveworks/weave-gitops: website/docs/secrets/getting-started.mdx

title: Getting Started
hide_title: true
---

import TierLabel from "./../_components/TierLabel";
import AlphaWarning from "../_components/_alpha_warning.mdx";

# Getting started with secrets management <TierLabel tiers="Enterprise" />

> <AlphaWarning/>

Reviewer: I was talking to @MostafaMegahid and he told me it's not an alpha feature

This guide shows you a basic experience to get started with Weave Gitops Secrets.
It covers the scenario of setting up the capability in a test environment and how to use it for your applications.

## Requirements
- You have a test Weave Gitops Enterprise environment with Flux installed.
- You have a secret in AWS secrets manager.

## Add the secrets infra

In order to be able to manage external secrets stores and secrets, add `external-secrets` application from `weaveworks-charts` profiles repository.

![add infra profile](imgs/getting-started-add-infra.png)

:::tip
[Here](../../../cluster-management/add-applications) you could refresh how to add applications.
:::

Review and merge the PR and see it available in your cluster

![infra profile reconciled](imgs/getting-started-setup-infra.png)

> ## Connect your secrets store

Author: looking 👀

> ## Connect your secrets store

Author: working to link it as source and kustomization i could see this situation 

<img width="1254" alt="Screenshot 2023-04-12 at 14 54 51" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/12957664/231480305-db14fc91-5802-432a-bbb2-408fd886c7c4.png">

we could see whether we need to have a dependency between eso app and secret store

> ## Connect your secrets store

Author: updated @serboctor please have a look

title: Getting Started
hide_title: true
---

import TierLabel from "./../_components/TierLabel";
import AlphaWarning from "../_components/_alpha_warning.mdx";

# Getting started with secrets management <TierLabel tiers="Enterprise" />

<AlphaWarning/>

This guide shows you a basic experience to get started with Weave Gitops Secrets.
It covers the scenario of setting up the capability in a test environment and how to use it for your applications.

## Requirements
- You have a test Weave Gitops Enterprise environment with Flux installed.
- You have a secret in AWS secrets manager.

## Add the secrets infra

> In order to allow you managing external secrets stores and secrets, install `external-secrets` profile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to be able to manage external secrets stores and secrets, install `external-secrets` profile
```

from `weaveworks-charts` profiles repository.

> <details><summary>Expand to see example</summary>

Reviewer: we usually point the user to to adding the profile through adding an application in the UI for existing clusters, or selecting a profile during cluster creation. I find sharing the helm files like this directly a bit confusing. 
We sometimes elaborate by explaining a certain part of the configuration in the values file.
 this is how it was done for the policy https://docs.gitops.weave.works/docs/policy/getting-started/#install-policy-profile and Waleed did something similar in his secrets docs as well

```yaml
apiVersion: source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta2
kind: HelmRepository
metadata:
  name: weaveworks-charts
  namespace: flux-system
spec:
  interval: 1m0s
  provider: generic
  timeout: 1m0s
  url: https://weaveworks.github.io/weave-gitops-profile-examples/
---
apiVersion: helm.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v2beta1
kind: HelmRelease
metadata:
  labels:
    weave.works/applied-layer: layer-0
  name: external-secrets
  namespace: flux-system
spec:
  interval: 1m0s
  chart:
    spec:
      chart: external-secrets
      sourceRef:
        apiVersion: source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta2
        kind: HelmRepository
        name: weaveworks-charts
        namespace: flux-system
  install:
    crds: CreateReplace
    createNamespace: true
```
</details>

And see it available in your cluster

![setup infra](imgs/getting-started-setup-infra.png)

## Connect your secrets store

> In order to connect with your secrets stores, install `secrets-store-config` profile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to connect to your secrets stores, install `secrets-store-config` profile
```

<details><summary>Expand to see example</summary>

```yaml
apiVersion: helm.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v2beta1
kind: HelmRelease
metadata:
  labels:
    weave.works/applied-layer: layer-0
  name: secrets-store-config
  namespace: flux-system
spec:
  interval: 1m0s
  chart:
    spec:
      chart: secrets-store-config
      sourceRef:
        apiVersion: source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta2
        kind: HelmRepository
        name: weaveworks-charts
        namespace: flux-system
  values:
    secretStores:
     aws-secrets-manager:
         provider:
           aws:
             service: SecretsManager
             region: eu-north-1
             auth:
               secretRef:
                 accessKeyIDSecretRef:
                   name: awssm-secret
                   key: access-key
                 secretAccessKeySecretRef:
                   name: awssm-secret
                   key: secret-access-key
```
</details>

And see it available in your cluster

![setup secret stores](imgs/getting-started-setup-config.png)

## Create the secret

Given you have a secret in AWS Secrets Manager for example `test/search/db`.

![aws secret](imgs/getting-started-secret-asm.png)

> Create the External Secret manifest to pull the secret from your store into your environment.

Reviewer: cant we point the user here to the page covering the UI? our UI already does this for the user. Or instead of pointing the user to the other page, have a minimal version of it in this section instead. Unless if you think there's a certain value in showing the user how to do it using the manifests.

Author: good call, updated! let me know whether it makes sense

See it available in your cluster.

![setup secret stores](imgs/getting-started-secret.png)

## Use the secret

At this stage you have everything you need for your application to [consume the secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/#using-a-secret)
Add it to your application as usual.

<details><summary>Expand to see example</summary>

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: secret-dotfiles-pod
spec:
  volumes:
  - name: database-secrets
    secret:
      secretName: search-database
  containers:
  - name: dotfile-test-container
    image: registry.k8s.io/busybox
    command:
    - ls
    - "-l"
    - "/etc/database-secrets"
    volumeMounts:
    - name: database-secrets
      readOnly: true
      mountPath: "/etc/database-secrets"
```
</details>

You could see the expected secret available

```bash
kubectl logs -f secret-dotfiles-pod

total 0
lrwxrwxrwx    1 root     root            15 Apr  5 17:26 password -> ..data/password
```

## Next steps?

- For other setup scenarios using external secrets see [setup secrets operator](./setup-secrets-operator.mdx)
- For SOPS secrets, see [managing secrets with sops](./managing-secrets-with-sops.mdx)

> - To discover the UI capabilities to manager secret see [here](./manage-secrets-ui.mdx)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To discover the UI capabilities to manage secrets see [here](./manage-secrets-ui.mdx)
```
